# Bank Churn_Model_Analysis
I built a geodemographic segmentation model for a European Bank with branches within France, Spain, and Germany. The purpose of this logistic regression model is to predict what factors cause churn for the type of customers that might leave the bank. I took a look at gender, number of products, tenure etc. in order to figure this out.  First I transformed the independent variables and created derived variables. Then I tried different iterations of the model to see if the adjusted r squared increased. Afterwards I checked for multicollinearity using variance inflation factors (VIFs). After that, I performed a correlation matrix to narrow down which final variables to use within the model. 

**Assessing the Model:**
I built a Cumulative Accuracy Profile (CAP) curve in Excel to assess the model and how well it’s performing. The model select percent of total churners was at 81% when looking at the CAP curve. The curve shows that after I ran my model using test data, the model select percent of total churners is at 75%. Then I compared accuracy ratio in the training performance vs test performance and made sure there was no overfitting. Afterwards I performed an odds ratio for the coefficients from my model to get a better understanding of which variables influence the highest churn.

**Insights and Recommendation:**
Germany as an indicator is the most important factor that influences customer churn from a branch standpoint. Female customers have much higher odds of leaving the bank than male customers. The IsActiveMember independent variable shows us that being an active member is great for retention. It's recommended to cater to female customers and get them to become more active members. While tenure didn’t have much effect on churn, perhaps it could be used as a way to reward loyal customers and support retention. These recommendations will help this European bank become more efficient and save costs in the future.
